# Latent Timbre Synthesis - Pytorch version

Pytorch implementation of Latent Timbre Synthesis. Original repo is available at: https://github.com/ktatar/latent-timbre-synthesis

Latent Timbre Synthesis (LTS) is a deep learning audio synthesis architecture that learns from audio sample dataset.

Project page: https://kivanctatar.com/latent-timbre-synthesis

# Latent Timbre Synthesis using Variational Auto-Encoders
We combine Variational Auto-Encoders with inverse audio synthesis to generate a latent audio space for musical applications.

# Training your own models 

Let's create a dataset to before the VAE training:

- Gather some audio files
- Create a folder with any name. This is your dataset folder.
- In your dataset folder, create a folder called audio. Move all your audio files in that folder. 

We need to create the CQT vectors saved in .npy numpy files. To do so, we will use the create_dataset.py script. 
This script expects a config file where audio parameters are given. Let's say you would like to use [lts_repo]/default.ini as your config file

` python [lts-repo]/utils/create_dataset.py --config [lts_repo]/functional/timbre_vae/default.ini`

There are three different scripts that you can use to train your own models: (FIXME: not available in the PyTorch repo)

1- functional/timbre_vae/train.py

2- timbre_vae2/timbre_vae/train.py

3- timbre_cvae/timbre_vae/train.py

The models generated by any of these scripts are compatible with the interpolate_two application. 
We recommend the first script, as it is the most simple architecture that gives the best results. 

train.py scripts expects a config file. In each folder, there is an example config file with the name default.ini.
Change the dataset parameter to the path of your dataset folder. Leave the workspace parameter empty. 
The description parameter creates a folder where the models generated during the runs will be saved. 
The configs and the description parameter is especially usefull if you run several trainings in different machines concurrently 

Hence, you can use it as 

`python [lts_repo]/functional/timbre_vae/train.py --config ./default.ini`

